docs: deprecate old edge content; address cyclic dependency issue (#7431)
spectrocloud/librarium: docs/docs-content/clusters/edge/site-deployment/model-profile.md

---
sidebar_label: "Model Edge Native Cluster Profile"
title: "Model Edge Native Cluster Profile"
description: "Instructions for creating an Edge cluster profile."
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 0
tags: ["edge"]
---

[Cluster profiles](../../../profiles/cluster-profiles/cluster-profiles.md) contain the desired specifications the for

> your Edge cluster. All Edge profiles require you to provide an Operating System (OS) pack, a Kubernetes pack and a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
your Edge cluster. All Edge profiles require you to provide an Operating System (OS) pack, a Kubernetes pack, and a
```

not require persistent storage. However, if your cluster needs to use persistent storage, you need to include a CSI
pack.

As with any other environment in Palette, you can define additional add-on cluster profiles. You can use add-on profiles
to define integrations or applications that must be included when Palette deploys the cluster.

The following steps will guide you on how to create an Edge-type cluster profile.

:::info

This page covers modeling cluster profiles in
[Appliance Mode](../../../deployment-modes/appliance-mode/appliance-mode.md). You can also deploy a cluster at the Edge
using agent mode. Refer to [Agent Mode](../../../deployment-modes/agent-mode/agent-mode.md) for more information.

:::

## Prerequisites

- The OS layer expects a provider image reference, which is Kairos-based container image for specific OS and Kubernetes
  combinations you build during [EdgeForge](../edgeforge-workflow/edgeforge-workflow.md). You do not need to have built
  the provider image at the cluster profile modeling stage, but you need to know where the uploaded image will be and

>   specify the image location in the `system.uri` parameter.

Reviewer: Cannot they also use a placeholder value and replace it later?

![A view of the Kubernetes pack editor with a YAML configuration](/clusters_site-deployment_model-profile_byoos-pack-yaml.webp)

10. Update the `system.uri` parameter in the pack editor. Use the provider image you created in the EdgeForge process.
    If you have not built the image yet, fill the parameter with where the image will be uploaded to.

    Refer to the EdgeForge [Build Images](../edgeforge-workflow/palette-canvos/palette-canvos.md) guide for more

>     information. The following snippet is an example where your cluster will expect a provider image at

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    information. The following snippet is an example where your cluster expects a provider image at
```

Author: I feel like future tense is appropriate here because we are only talking about establishing cluster profiles. The real provision of the cluster does come in the future
